but I think the basic problem is that
you have a lack of experience in life
like just experiencing different things
and what you need to do is just go out
and do something like go do different
things they don't have to be good they
don't have to be bad but as you start to
do different things you are going to
develop a different sense of self from
the one that you have now and as you
change your sense of self your ability
to move in the world is going to change
so tell me a little bit what are we
calling you Andrew uh entry sign okay so
Andrew tell me a little bit about what's
going on and how we can help okay
so sorry I'm like really nervous right
now it's like a really fantastic yeah
yeah antastic
let's start there okay yeah let's start
there okay so what are you feeling when
you feel nervous uh my heart's beating
really fast I kind of excited okay I'm
shaking okay yeah
so let's let's just think about that so
the way that you're feeling right now
how does that affect your actions like
what is it making you want to do it's
making me not want to open it absolutely
right and I don't know if you were
planning on opening up or whatever but
so let's just notice that right so what
do you feel like doing
uh I mean just talking like there are
definitely things that I want to open up
and I want to talk about things but it's
just kind of it's like stick it stop
beautiful okay beautiful so stock is a
fantastic place to start I mean it's it
I'm just noticing I do this thing where
I you know I say it's been - I'm glad
that you're noticing where you are
because that's where we have to start so
the progress like the the path to moving
forward starts where you are and if you
if there's a part of you that doesn't
want to move forward like that's really
important to acknowledge because until
we recognize that like we can't move
forward if we just ignore it which is
what we do a lot of the times right
we're like I should move forward so let
me just like ignore this part of myself
and let me move forward but that's not
how it works so great so now we've got a
couple of options Andrew so you don't
feel like opening up right I I do but
it's hard I think I could like like just
power through it yes what I usually end
up doing that kind of stuff yeah so I'm
gonna give you an option okay I'm gonna
give you options one is we can try
meditating actually right now and see
what happens to those feelings of not
wanting to open up see what happens to
the feelings of nervousness
or I can talk to you in a way that
facilitates you opening up and kind of
easy into it uh let's do number two just
keep it moving okay so tell me a little
bit about what's going on and what
brings you on stream well I think the
first time I saw you was a clip on the
live stream fails subreddit and it was
it was really funny so I I just wanted
to check it out and I just ended up
really like liking the content and I
went on YouTube and watched all the
videos have been here maybe like since
from up announcer yeah
so what resonated with you about our
content um I mean just like a lot of
people who came on like I feel like I
could relate to a lot of their problems
so like what um I mean I think it
started off with like with like the game
addiction but just I mean just like life
things in general
it's kind of hard for me to I think of
like exactly like he's out sir so yeah
what is it that you'd like to talk about
today hmm maybe just how to move forward
in life great fantastic so I want to
just point something out to you do you
want to move forward in this
conversation absolutely and yet you
don't there's there's there's two parts
of me there's one part that that
absolutely wants to and I know that it
needs to be done but there's another
part that's like very hesitant to
fantastic so I think you are doing
something that's actually really cool
and gets me like psychologically excited
which is that like your problem in life
is that you're stuck and you're actually
facing a microcosm of that problem with
this conversation I can kind of see that
yeah that's funny like you see that yeah
like you you know you need to but you
don't feel like it does that mean tribe
maybe I feel like it but maybe I'm
scared absolutely so what are you scared
of in life
uh maybe like moving out of my comfort
zone
okay stepping up okay so what is
stepping up look like to you
that's a great question I I don't think
I know the answer that I think I feel
like there's things that I need to do
but I don't really know like what the
right thing to do is yeah so let's just
think about that for a second right okay
if I go to a restaurant and someone asks
me what would you like to order and I
say I don't know what am I gonna get
you're gonna get stares and they're
gonna wait for you to pick something out
yeah but like you don't know what you
want right right so you don't know what
progress even looks like maybe I have
like an idea of what progress could look
like and maybe I've tried some things
but sure yeah okay well I started to
recently go to the grocery store and
like buy fruits like ever were you
mentioning like pineapple is good and
you know that isn't stuff like that so
yeah just trying to eat a little better
and where you drink more water to do
that yeah I think I've been doing it for
a couple weeks now just buying buying
fruits at least you can start eating so
buying a fruit is like actually not like
eating the fruit is what we're going for
yeah it's it's it's definitely like a
multi-step process like leaving the
house going to the grocery store and
taking the fruit home and then eating it
you know it's yeah how do you feel about
that uh I feel good but maybe I feel
like I could do more
absolutely yeah so I'm gonna say I'm
gonna tell you what's on the other side
of
I could do more so there's another side
of that coin and I could do more is
maybe like a little bit optimistic can
you imagine what the pessimistic side of
that coin is um maybe like what I'm
doing doesn't matter absolutely right so
it I could do more the flip side of the
coin is I'm not doing enough okay yeah
is that how you feel sometimes yeah
actually no I think yeah for sure yeah
yeah I think so too yeah okay so you're
not like you're not cutting it right
like you should be cutting it you're not
cutting it you're just not yeah you're
not making it yeah yeah like Oh like
these are like baby steps like I should
be taking like big boy steps yeah so
yeah what I'm getting from you is that
the amount of progress or change that
you need to make in life is far greater
than what you're doing yes so it feels
like the progress that you're making on
the one hand seems like kind of cool and
on the other hand seems woefully
insufficient yes how long have you been
feeling that way mmm
feeling like just insufficient mm-hmm
like you should be doing more I think it
might have started after graduating
college but maybe even before that okay
but it didn't really start to sink in
until like much later yeah so that's
great I mean that it's not great I think
it's good that you noticed that this
feeling started in college which is very
common let me put it that way
mm-hmm so I Andrew like do you know what
what the age group what the most common
age group is of people who reach out to
me probably people around age like in
their mid-20s I would imagine yeah so
like the earliest is like 2021 why don't
you 16 or 17 year olds reach out to me
very much what do you think they don't
think about those kinds of things
they're still they're still young like
they're in school and they kind of have
like a path
and they can kind of like to have things
to do yeah so what starts to happen
around 20 or 21 did you start to think
about the future
oh sorry what are you saying yeah yeah
yeah right good yep and and so I'll tell
you like what I think it is is that when
you're 20 you're on the same path as
everyone else in college you may have
great upset or batter or grades that are
worse but when you're 21 like
something's there's like this little
like like the hair on your neck starts
to back up there's this little tickle of
doubt that starts because even though
you may be going to class like you're
not getting internships right yes you're
not doing like the extra stuff that
people are doing that you should be
doing yes yeah it kind of describes me
in school yeah yeah right and that
starts to scare you a little bit because
you're like oh like maybe I should be
doing more
but like I'm kind of going to class and
I'm gonna graduate but like these other
people are doing this additional stop so
you start to worry and then as you start
to get older so that's the first time
that you start to see that there's a
divergence between you and other people
yes and as you get older like what
happens
it's the gap gets bigger if there's a
there's a big difference and how is how
old are you now Andrew I am going to be
26 and about two months and how big is
the gap now injured it's pretty big so
why are you coming on stream today
Andrew um well that's very clever I like
how we're opening up here just to get
figure out what to do next you know like
I knew yeah I feel like I need help yeah
yeah but I mean can you be more specific
I guess like I feel like you're trying
to go somewhere yeah I am trying to go
somewhere twitch at is where I'm going
so yeah that's good so yeah when I was
the answer that I'm looking for is like
you're here to close that gap yeah right
like if it's if that's not it then let
me know like we sometimes make
hypotheses right we arrive at
conclusions you gotta let me know like
is that what you're here for is to close
the Hat um I feel like we can roll with
that yeah I'm like I feel like there's
lots of things that I'd like to fix but
we can start there yeah
let's turn okay let's talk about the
other ones sure
what else do you want to fix um I don't
know I think that's it like it just
boils down to like I don't feeling like
I'm like on track all night like I feel
like I'm uptight wait so is that what it
does boil down to or it doesn't because
if I mind our being off track and
getting on track is the same as closing
the gap yeah yeah it is yeah but yeah
yeah but then you're saying there's
other stuff I think the other stuff
boils down to that if that makes sense
okay sure so it all gets to down to that
it all comes down to that I think I'd
like to think that yeah so I think that
there's more so I think as good as
twitch Etta's and as good as we are I
think that there's a part of you that's
actually going towards that answer out
of safety okay is there something that
you're like kind of concerned about like
emotionally is there something that
gives you a lot of anxiety or concern
that you don't feel comfortable talking
about on stream um maybe some things but
they're not I don't think they're that
related I'm not sure yeah so Tom can you
tell me a little bit about those sounds
like the answer's no not right now
I feel like we can get there I feel like
we can get there yeah okay okay okay so
good so Andrew yes we can talk about
closing the gap but I don't think that's
gonna be what you need okay so I think
that that like we've got to explore this
out like with the other thing like I
don't know what it is I don't know
there's other things I guess but yeah
okay yeah because I don't know because I
I think you're right it all kind of
boils down to closing the gap but like
let me explain this to you so to get on
track in life you have to deal with all
the things that you don't want to talk
about yes agreed yeah so like let's talk
about one of those specifically instead
of this abstract concept so this is also
something to understand when we're
dealing with abstract concepts
what does that do to us like what does
that do to our mind okay yeah okay no I
I think I just had trouble like thinking
of like things so I went to school I'll
see this as Gracie I like that we
transition right I went to school and
ready to write out it when I graduate as
2012 sub up for three years and I
graduated with a degree in game design
and I came out the back end of it
thinking like oh [ __ ] like actually
don't know how to do any of this stuff
and I just for a year like I didn't do
anything I didn't work I just stayed at
home and played games all day and then
did you have fun I think um it's fun for
a little bit and I think it's fun when
you're playing it but like thinking
about it like I don't know if I
necessarily regret doing it okay yeah
but I ended up just taking up a retail
job and that's what I still do and I've
been doing that for the last three years
so I feel like you know like I went to
school and it's like I had this big
vision and this is the thing that I
wanted to do for the rest of my life and
then I finish it it's like wait I
actually don't know if I want to do it
or if I'm cut out for it or if I even
like to do it so yeah okay yeah you're
very good
I like this that was good well what
what's how we got there that we got
there
it came what's there how about me person
where we are where we're uh we're
dealing with the issues directly no I
said what's the issue requested the
issue is I don't have a sense of purpose
I guess like career-wise
yeah I think there's more to it than
that
I think that's that's your abstract
that's a saw I think here's the
operative words right so I don't know if
I want to do it I don't know if I'm cut
out to do it I don't know if I'm able to
do it yeah so I think that there's sure
like sense of purpose is once again an
abstract but I noticed something about
you Andrew which is that you go to
abstract concepts for like a feeling of
safety okay I can see that right so
this is sort of like and it's very
Commons because if we can make something
intellectual like if we start using our
intellectual or analytical mind what
part of our mind do we get to ignore the
feeling part absolutely
right so so I thought I didn't realize
you made some kind of breakthrough but
it seems like you made some kind of
breakthrough and I think I did yeah but
I think which what should what what I
when you said that I think the main
thing is you got in touch with like
somewhat like you put words to your
actual fears and what I'm hearing from
you is that you're conflating or
combining a sense of purpose with a
sense of capability
you're like mixing the two in your mind
right you're saying there's a difference
between I don't want to do this and I
don't think I can do it and I think your
real problem is that since you're not
sure you can do it you're not willing to
let yourself want to do it
mmm okay right so I'll give you guys
like just think like I think that was a
little bit confusing the way I said it
what did you understand
um well I only want to do it if I'm good
at it if I'm gonna be good absolutely
yeah absolutely right
yeah and what does that mean for you
like like just think about that as a
strategy it's not a very good one
because why not you don't do like you're
only good at the things that you know
how to do and if you don't try to do
things you don't know how to do you're
never gonna like you just you're not
good at things that you that you just
starting at it absolutely
so Andrew what's your [ __ ] problem
man I you're there you're gonna it's
gonna be that I need to try and do it
right I need to go and do something just
try it just do it
yeah sort of right so so like that's the
problem right so the problem is that you
lack confidence in yourself so you want
to do the thing that you know you can do
because like you don't have faith in
yourself that you'll be able to handle
it so you don't want to like go out so
like if I go hiking in the wilderness if
I have faith that I know how to find
food and water and navigate and build
shelter
I don't need certainty about what I'm
gonna encounter does that make sense
like I have faith in my skills to
survive what I'm hearing from you is
that you don't have faith in your skills
to survive so you're not willing to try
and then the most devastating thing that
you do to yourself is since you're if
you're afraid that you're not good it's
something you don't let yourself even
want and that's where the lack of
purpose comes from because you don't
even know what you want like I asked you
like what is like a good life look like
and you're like I don't know I think you
do know what you want I just don't think
you let yourself want what you want okay
you don't like myself okay so I think
for me like my experience was that I
went to school for three years for like
game design and then I came out the back
end and it's like I don't know how to do
anything and it's like okay well I kind
of tried in school and like maybe that
was proof to me like oh like
actually don't know how to do anything
or if I do if I don't I don't like it
cuz I did try right I tried for three
years but maybe I just didn't like I
didn't give it my full effort you look
if you give it your full effort I don't
think I did but I can't I can't I don't
know if I can say for sure like if I
feel like I did or not I feel like there
are times in school where I did and
times in school I did it but even when I
did even when I did I don't think I
necessarily enjoyed it like it wasn't
what I thought it was going to be okay
yeah period um I'm just gonna think for
a second is that okay yeah I'll just
think out loud for a second I'm trying
to get a sense of like we were talking
about something that wasn't game design
like I'm trying to move you away from
thinking about game design and you keep
coming to game design you keep coming to
college and so I'm trying to figure out
like what the significance of your
desire to talk about the way that you
feel around colleges I I think that
growing up as a kid like I always had
video games and that's what I grew up
thinking like all I wanted to do
something like game related like I do
something you know it's playing games or
making games or whatever and then I
actually went to school for it like like
my whole life like I'm climbing like the
mountain that's like like video games
like I'm gonna base my whole life around
this and then I get to the top and what
I get my kicked off like didn't blanking
like when with us is like he's coming up
in scar like kicks him off the mountain
yeah it's like that like I die does that
feel feels like I died like my like like
the Rudd guts whipped up from under me
like I got kicked like you watch I've
been watching people play jump King it
feels like that like you get to the top
and you fall off off the side of the map
and you you just hit the bottom okay
yeah that's some pretty powerful imagery
yeah do you feel like someone did that
to you
like myself I don't know I'm asking so I
came in the image it's all it's not like
Mufasa tripped and fell right it's like
he climbs to the top of the mountain and
then scar like sinks his claws into
mufasa's like hands and then flings him
off were you to flog off or did you just
slip I don't know
maybe a part of me wants to say that
like I set myself up for that like
there's a part of me that like wanted to
do it and then there was another part of
me that was like maybe you should try to
do something else instead because I
wasn't fully enjoying it
did someone [ __ ] you over me I guess
okay yes some something else that gets
me psychologically excited right because
like you are the scar and you are the
Mufasa yep yep I mean is that how you
feel like you feel like you did this to
yourself like I let myself down like I
kicked myself off is that how you feel
yeah kind of a little bit what's that
like it's almost kind of relieving in a
weird way how so like like it's within
my it's within my power to like to like
take action until I kind of do something
about it how do you feel about that
I think risk I think I'm still back to
not knowing if it's the thing that I
really wanted to do or if I should just
try to do something else yeah I'm gonna
think it for another second
yeah so Andrew I'm a little bit
surprised because you're making
revelations that I'm not I mean it's
clear because I was surprised when you
said it it's helpful or it feels good to
recognize that which I believe that's
just not the answer that I was expecting
so I'm trying to recalibrate a little
bit and try to understand your
perspective and on the flip side there's
a part of me that's like I don't have to
understand it seems to be helping the
guy so let's just tell you me anywhere
actionable it's like okay like these are
kinds of things like I feel like I've
had this conversation with myself that
maybe like not out loud with another
person okay yeah
what are what do you tell yourself what
are the conversations that what do you
tell yourself when you talk to yourself
hey well you know I tried I tried to
kind of succeed in school with the thing
that I really wanted to do and it didn't
really work out so maybe we can try to
do something else and I might end up
liking that more or that might be like a
different path that I could take in life
okay yeah and how do you feel about it's
not working out
it sucks mm-hmm like I mean like I was
saying like it's it's the thing that I
kind of imagined myself doing like
that's pretty much like the one thing
that I always kind of had going for me
or that I thought that I had going for
me and it's like well now I have to kind
of like just like look for something
else yeah so now now I think I mean it
sounds like you've gotten somewhere
which is great but no I feel like I'm
understanding you a little bit better so
thank you so much for you know answering
my questions so I think I want everyone
who's listening and for you to just
think about this Andrew so like you've
put all of your eggs in one basket
yes right and then like what happened to
your basket Hey someone took my basket
or the eggs went bad
yes see once again there's like there's
like a villain somewhere in your
subconscious mind
yeah it's not I lost the basket drop the
basket the eggs broke look they're all
kinds of weird [ __ ] you can say which is
what I was expecting
you said someone took the basket and
this is like consistent with the Mufasa
imagery and scar so like who took the
basket and I don't think it's yourself
like did someone take your [ __ ]
basket it's gonna be my parents isn't it
that's that's where this is going no I
don't know I think it might I don't know
anything about your parents like you're
the one your subconscious mind is
producing all of these like faint like
because you can say I mean I give you
such a broad analogy of eggs in a basket
yep and and like I thought like in my
mind the analogy is that the eggs are
fragile so they break easily so if you
drop it all the eggs break like that's
what's in my mind like I don't know I've
never even thought about it okay it's
consciously me maybe maybe like like
like who took it away from you Andrew so
I don't think that stolen I think just
the okay eggs my bed the eggs aren't bad
I like that better because it's like I
kind of I kind of like skated by like in
school but in life too I feel like just
just enough to get by and like I had the
eggs all along like I was able to keep
them safe but I guess they were able to
do anything with it
well I guess don't have the eggs they're
just really there there they went
they're spoiled okay yeah all right so
like let's just be transparent for a
second if you I don't want you to try to
change what you say but can we just
acknowledge that if there's some other
like open-ended weird Rorschach kind of
like statement that I make and if
someone does something bad to you then
we've got to talk about that like I can
let two out of three fine like the
imagery of Mufasa and like it's not like
you fell off the mountain the eggs went
bad like fine but if we hear it again
we're gonna think about that a little
bit more okay okay so okay I mean so I
think that let's just go back to the
eggs in in the basket and so so you have
you know you've put your entire life
into video game design like with how how
early on did you decide you wanted to
make video games I don't know if I
necessarily wanted to make video games I
just knew that I wanted to be involved
but I just making games is kind of like
the most like involved involved in what
I could think just like you know I like
go to work and do video game stuff and I
come home and I play video games so okay
it's like I went to school for video
game design and then somewhere along the
way you you what why did you think that
you weren't so like as you were in
school for video game design did you
like what you were learning kind of well
that's the problem I think part of it I
can't necessarily put the whole blame on
myself I think there are parts of school
where I was never able to like kind of
do what I really wanted to do in terms
of like game stuff if that makes sense
hold on when you say you didn't put the
whole blame on yourself does that mean
we're putting the blame on someone else
no I feel like there's so there are
parts there definitely things that I
could have done to kind of make to make
more use of my time but I feel like the
environment that I was in was not
necessarily like helpful either okay
what does that mean um tell me about the
environment well it's kind of like goes
back to like putting like just like
hoping for the future like when I was in
high school like I had an idea of what
like college is gonna be like and
actually got there and it was it really
anything like I imagined it being okay
did you feel like you got taken
advantage of maybe a little but I feel
like I feel like I probably could have
done more to kind of prevent that like
the tools were kind of available to me
but I never really made the most of it
okay I hear what you're saying
okay did you feel like college could
have done a better job of preparing you
for your career like for most people
college prepares them for their career
right yeah I kind of feel that way but
at the same time the people that I've
seen that we're successful coming out of
school which is very little like it was
a really small school but most of the
people who did well we're people who put
in a lot of work outside of class like
most of their creative endeavors were
done outside of class and for me like I
spent most of my time outside of class
just playing games yeah yeah yeah so I
think that's the divergence right and so
when did you decide that like your your
eggs were like that
when did you feel like the boat sailed
I think towards the end of it like
towards the end us will not listen
really like at the end but it was like
oh like okay like we're finishing up now
there are some people who kind of like
well like I'm looking at my peers and
it's like oh these people are so much
more like equipped they're more practice
they've done more than I have and I just
play games all day so like in my I guess
a part of my mind wanted to conflate
like playing games as like doing work
because
I don't know but no this is not really
the case that's not how it works yeah so
so and you finished college and then you
thought like it's over well I had like I
had sort of like an internship and I
didn't really do a lot like there's a
part of my mind that's like I'm not
really like doing a lot of work here and
I'm not like this isn't what I imagined
my life to be like okay but actually
well the other thing that happened to
says I live in Hawaii I went to school
in the mainland so I ended up moving
back home with my parents and I feel
like that kind of like you know like
maybe if I stayed in the mainland like I
still would have been able to be around
like my peers and I could have like
worked with them and stuff like that but
like moving to like we think that come
kind of like killed it like I did part
of the internship online but it was just
never really I kind of fell off like I
feel like I'm onto that cuz just wasn't
it didn't feel like it was going
anywhere right wasn't like I wasn't I
wasn't being like challenged or
interested by the work like I didn't
really like didn't really gel with me
and and
okay.i Andrew I'm gonna just need a
second to like recalibrate because I
still can't escape from this thought
that like this is just weird to me okay
because this is a real real weird dream
um so so so I think that I'm not blame
I'm please don't feel blamed I'm I'm
just trying to help you think about so I
have lots of things that I can say that
I feel like are somewhat generic right
so we can explore for example what it's
like to move back what it's like to you
know how do you start moving forward why
did you feel like it didn't gel with you
there are all these kinds of questions
that I could ask yeah right I feel like
I could answer Holden - yeah yeah and
that's I think the problem because I I
think I think there's there's something
here that I feel like we're moving
around that you're not willing to say
okay I feel like there's something here
it's like you have all of those answers
and that's not where the money is then
and the money isn't in the answers you
have it's in the answers that you don't
have okay and and there's just some
there's just some weird theme about and
like the other thing is like you're
creating this weird kind of like you're
baiting me like that's what it feels
like I'm not blaming you for this but
like you're giving me all this like
psychologically juicy [ __ ] like I am the
Mufasa and I'm the scar right but I I
don't like that's true but and you kind
of you keep on accepting responsibility
for your situation which sounds super
healthy right you're saying like oh yeah
I could have done more I could have done
more I could have done done more great
and you're saying that I think that
makes sense so like maybe this is just
like maybe I'm just I just got off on
the wrong track is that happens I'm not
perfect I'm not psychic I know people
think I am sometimes I'm just [ __ ]
wrong but to me it feels like there's
something here like do you
has someone has someone taken something
away from you like even before all this
College stuff like I know it's a
generator of course people have taken
things away from you but it's something
does something in your mind like pop out
when I ask you that question
I think my mom loves it okay yeah
what did she take away from you um I
don't know if she took anything away for
me necessarily but maybe like so growing
up I did play a lot of video games and
even as like in like middle school in
high school like I definitely like like
I did okay in school but I ended up
playing a lot of games and I think that
kind of like detracted from like other
parts of my life and I remembered like
there are times in my life were like I
was playing lots of games no my mom
would tell me like oh like you're only
gonna be good at games and stuff like
that like all you can be was like you
just sit around play on the computer
holy [ __ ] yeah what did she take away
from you I don't know what she took away
like my ability to like to do other
things
abso-fucking-lutely just think about
that for a second yeah so I feel like
I've known this yeah yeah go ahead good
no keep going I feel like I've known
this and I feel like like maybe like
like the 25 year-old Landry kind of
knows this but maybe like the younger
Andrew he's kind of like you still hurt
so some start right what's been doing
their homework yeah so tell me about the
younger Andrew uh I feel like he is kind
of hurt he's really hurt by that and you
know it's kind of weird it's like well
like I like to play video games and
maybe I do play too much but it's like
well now I'm hurt so now that I'm her
I'm gonna play more videos
so what were your choices to major in
college um well actually it was a it was
specifically for game design like I
understand that yeah
no choices like okay yeah like like so
so like this is the thing right so you
have this idea that you've got like one
option in life yeah right where did you
get that idea
it's probably like when I was younger
like for my mom right but it's kind of
weird cuz it's like I always like video
games but then I guess something got in
my head like I can only do video games
yeah right so I'm just gonna jump in for
a second so thanks for the raid a theme
live well we really appreciate it
and so we're gonna pick up in a second
Andrew cuz I just got to think about
this and I'm just gonna introduce people
to what this is so this is the healthy
gamer dot GG stream I am a psychiatrist
practicing in Boston Massachusetts this
is a stream all about sort of helping
people understand themselves why they
feel stuck helping them kind of think
about how to move forward so we're
talking with Andrew and Andrew feels
like he's sort of I would describe your
situation Andrew is something that I'd
call failure to launch I really like
that yeah yeah right so like look
failure to launch is like everything set
up like everyone's on board the plane is
is fueled and just something happens and
the plane just can't get off the ground
yes and so I think we're actually
dealing with two separate things here
should one is the failure to launch
which is like why hasn't your video game
courier picked up why don't you really
want to make video games because I don't
think you want to make video games like
you haven't we've asked you what you
want and it's always been like oh like I
like video games so let me make this my
career but I did the real devastating
thing is that actually maybe what you
want and this kind of goes back to
confusing what you want with what you
think you're capable of maybe what you
want is something else but somewhere
along the lines somewhere along the way
and you got convinced
that the only thing you can possibly be
good at is videogames sounds right and
so if we want to help you move forward I
don't think we want to and this is we're
not you know I'm sorry if I was like
like I'm just not excited about the
college and the inability to find a job
in the video game industry that just
feels in me like it's like a red herring
even though it's soon or not it it sucks
because it's like three years of my life
but yeah right so then we also have an
element of like grief because you in a
sense corner quote wasted your time
which I don't think you did but we'll
get to that okay but I think now the
question becomes like you know what is
it that when you did you have any idea
of like what you wanted like when your
mom told you that how old were you by
the way oh well those happen a lot it
happened a lot yeah well I feel like it
happened on it and how did she make you
feel I mean it kind of hurt but I feel
like I was just kind of able to ignore
it because it's you know it's happening
it's happening when I'm playing my game
so it's like okay like just show like
I'm trying to focus like yeah yeah and
what happens to feelings that you ignore
Andrew oh they don't they stay right
there I mean what are they they'll come
up later yes and in what way so what
what is the feeling that she's creating
you are in you every time she says that
to you I mean it's like her I don't
really know like what the feeling is
yeah so it hurts to have your mom say
that and what does it make you start to
believe about yourself like maybe she's
right and if she's right what does that
mean she's right about what and I'm
screwed only do video games yeah that
I'm screwed because it's like the only
thing that I can do is a thing that I
like to do yes right and also they do
screwed yeah so I think part of the
reason like why are you stuck right now
injury
because I'd never know what to do I feel
like that's half of it yeah okay like I
feel like anything that I would do won't
turn out well exactly yep so this is
important to understand it's not that
you don't know what to do
it's that doing anything is futile yeah
like I feel like I've tried to like kind
of pick up other things but it never
really like never really panned out or
caught my interest or is anyone ever
able to like say like Oh like I could
see this as a replacement for like doing
video games
absolutely and so you say this is all
surface level language right like it
never panned out no I think the problem
was that you never gave it a fair shot
because in your heart of hearts you
never knew it would succeed yeah I feel
like there are times that like maybe I
did kind of give them I'll but those are
like wait I'm just trying to like it
never lasts you know like yes because
that so this is important to understand
you can use willpower to temporarily
overcome like your internal
psychological stuff but as long as that
core belief that you're just not gonna
succeed is there you're only gonna get
like spurts of activity you're not gonna
be able to create anything sustained so
if you want to do something in life you
have to believe in yourself right like
you have to believe that this could go
somewhere like you can force yourself to
do anything for a short amount of time
right but like if you really want this
sustained so what I'm hearing from you
is that you have no sustained momentum
yeah you're not you're not a fire you're
a firework sure like a small if I ever
get that - there we go right wait a
little sparkler what is that what does
that statement tell you about yourself
put yourself in my shoes what do I think
about you when you insist on telling me
that you're a small firework or sparkler
like like this guy's not gonna go dear
in life that's what you think about you
all right Wendy what do you think about
me I think that that's a guy who
believes he's not gonna go anywhere in
life that is correct
yeah sorry what's the what's the
question yeah yeah that's fine okay okay
confusing question sorry
but yeah I think you're absolutely right
so like so you're like some somewhere in
your mind like do you see that like you
can't even sit with a random ass analogy
like you have to correct me you have to
let yourself and me and the rest of the
world know that you're not gonna amount
to anything okay that's harsh but yeah
but that's what you're saying like
you're tell--you're correcting me okay I
wish had to see my face right now I wish
I could - how do you feel I mean hearing
it I mean there's like there's like a
sense of sadness but it doesn't like
it's not like anything new it's not like
new information to me there's a sense of
sadness what else is there like
hopelessness yeah right so I think this
is the problem I mean I don't think it's
about not knowing what you can do I
think it's just like you don't think so
this is something you got to understand
about yourself Andrew your brain is like
very good and your brain is not gonna
waste time doing things that it doesn't
think are worth it okay right like
you're not gonna like your brain is not
gonna let you wake up tomorrow and start
painting for six hours a day for the
next five years if it doesn't believe
that you can be a good painter right
and so I think this comes back to like
you're just you have some fundamental
sense that you're not able to accomplish
your not able to succeed yeah and this
is pervasive it's like you know the
firework I think is a really good
example because you're kind of saying
like it's not even a big firework it's a
small firework it's a sparkler your
faith in yourself is just is completely
like it's like you believe you're
capable of little little things okay
how long have you felt that way about
yourself it probably started her own
college like I feel like in like before
college like in high school and when I
was younger like I feel like I could do
those things but the only thing that I
wanted to do was to play video games
okay and I feel like I did it okay job
at that yeah right so it sort of makes
sense why you gravitate towards video
games because you have this belief about
yourself and there's one thing that's
your beacon of hope right right you have
like one thing that like you can believe
for yourself
that you can that can be different yeah
and so you gravitate towards it you put
all your eggs in one basket so now
Andrew we've got to start thinking about
I want to sort of shift gears for a
second and start thinking about like
okay what do we do about this yes right
so what thoughts you have about that
like what to do mm-hmm give any any idea
you don't have to I'm just wondering
nothing like concrete like the part that
comes to mind so now we're gonna do a
little bit education and and I'm gonna
tell you what I think you should do okay
okay so the first thing is that like
beliefs about yourself let's just think
about this so it's it's clear that
you've done your homework so you know to
some scara's so can you explain to our
audience what are some scara's so I
guess kind of like a traumatic
experience that you've had before in the
past and usually when you're younger and
you don't really have the capacity to
kind of like process emotionally
absolutely you get older right and it
just it just sticks with you like yeah
so I think your sense of inadequacy is
not of a 25 year old like the reason
that you feel the way that you do is
because you're like a 15 year old inside
a 25 year olds body yes
and like that disconnect is hard to deal
with because you don't feel 25 you feel
15 yes are retains the age at which it
was formed yep okay so what forms the
some scar like a traumatic experience
okay so this is an important point not
all some scars are negative okay so so
if I have a some scar that is positive
where is that gonna come from a good
experience
absolutely so what's the common element
between so it's the root of a some scar
it's is what like you're saying on the
one hand it's a traumatic experience on
the other hand it's a good experience so
it's like a powerful emotional
experience exactly okay so just think so
some scars shape your behavior right you
don't get to control them they're not
logical
they just exert this subtle influence in
your subconscious mind that shapes what
you do every day when you wake up like
do you get that you don't like every
time you wake up and you think about
what you want to do in life there is a
part of your there's a part of you that
says it doesn't matter what you do
because you're gonna fail you with me
okay yeah so there's no point in
applying for a job there's no point in
doing this there's no point in trying
this there's no point in trying this
because at the core of the problem is
that like you think you're gonna fail
like you agree with that or not I'm a
little bit like I feel like I can kind
of I can kind of do those things for a
little bit and then I get to a certain
point and I just stop good okay so so
that's also accurate right because you
can use willpower to overcome the
influence of the some scar does that
make sense
yes yep for a brief period of time but
the some scar is there and it's active
it's like the some scar is like uh I
don't know like Auto spawns bad feelings
and like you can use some amount of like
manna to like lightning bolt whatever
[ __ ] it is popping out but at some point
you're gonna run out of man and it'll
continue like spawning like [ __ ] in your
life yeah so like you're just gonna run
out of mana if you use willpower so we
got to do is we got to like destroy that
like enemy generator from like gauntlet
which is probably not a game any you
guys I played hopefully I would okay
right so you can't you you just have to
take take care of the route if so you
want it but this is kind of a little bit
of a tangent but I play League of
Legends but you can use dota as you see
like okay great yeah okay I don't know
how to translate this new dude okay so
so yeah blue Izzard is about to die
right okay so let's just think about
this so if a some scar is kind of like
automatic and exerts its influence on
you like automatically and there are
good to some scars and negative some
scars and good some scars form and the
fundamental root of some scar is
experience what do you need to do have
good experiences exactly and it is that
simple
it is not to have a particular
experience it is just to have good
experiences
yeah and I are what you guys to know I'm
saying okay some scar is sa msk
ARA ya is the a silent is it like a
pronunciation thing it's a commission
okay so so this is the important thing
like I want you guys to just think about
this for a second if we think about what
influences your behavior it is
experience right that the natural
impulses that cause you to do things are
formed by experience not by logic but by
experience if you want to change the
person that you are automatically so
that you don't have to use willpower if
you're a lazy [ __ ]
like I am and you don't want to like be
disciplined and you don't want to be use
willpower and you don't want to be a
try-hard you just need to have different
experiences so I'll give you just a
simple example so let's say like I go to
uh what's that dump like let's say like
I go to like some like seafood place
okay okay and if I go to a seafood place
and I get sick what happens the next
time someone tells me like hey let's go
eat at that seafood place I'm gonna
probably turn them down right and is
that does that require willpower no it's
very easy it's automatic right so
because a negative experience
automatically shapes our behavior it I
think you will power to go back
absolutely
now let's say that I go to a restaurant
and I have an amazing meal and if
someone says oh like hey let's let's go
back to that restaurant how easy is that
in a heartbeat I'm there absolutely and
why is that because I remember the
positive experiences exactly so
experience is the great teacher right
right like that's the that's the big
thing that I want you guys to understand
it's not about logic it's even not about
emotion although emotion has a lot to do
with it in its essence Yogi's say it is
experience that creates change okay so I
think what you need to do is experience
because right now what I'm hearing is
absent in your life is experience not
like a particular experience but just
experience in general
like I'm curious but I would bet money
Andrew that if I looked at the last
month of your life compared to six
months ago compared to one year ago that
the raw nature of your experience is
basically the same Li sorry can you try
that again
so like that basically if we think about
one year ago versus six months ago
versus one week ago like the kinds of
things that you're experiencing are
basically the same I would say that's
pretty accurate yeah and as long as that
as as long as that is the case your life
is not gonna change okay because
experience is what creates change right
just think about this for a second I
mean uh because I think this is a good
example and I use it a lot but it leads
to lots of live stream fails right so
like I was about to ask you if you've
had sex but I'm not gonna ask so okay
you know like once you have sex you have
this experience of sex and then it like
really makes you want to have more sex
well if it's a positive and then if
you're like a traumatic experience of
sex that really makes you not want to
have sex yeah but like you have to have
sex once to really get fuel to do it
again yeah that's true and so I think
the basic problem you're saying that I
feel stuck I don't know what I want and
that's because you've got no fuel in
your tank and so what you're trying to
do your mind is trying to substitute
like logic and plans for fuel you're
trying to figure out in your mind like
okay if I try to do this or if I set
this up or what if I live life this way
what if I live life that way but that's
not gonna actually motivate like you can
come up with and I mean I don't know why
I think this but I think that you've
thought a lot about like all these
different things that you could do and
you've even taken a couple of steps
forward in those ways even though
they're all good ideas that never leads
to anything because you're operating in
this like abstract area of ideas you're
just like I could do this or I could do
this or I could do this let me try this
like let me wake up in the morning like
I'm gonna like give it my best because
this sounds like a good idea but like
you're not getting any fuel like you're
just it's a firework right like you need
to stick logs in that fire and you need
to let it burn for a while in those logs
were just experienced
so what I want to know from you andrew
is like what can you do tomorrow or
you're in Hawaii yeah
so what time is it it's 11:20 a.m. right
now okay
so what can you do today that is gonna
expand the scope of your experience
like something different so what is that
that's a great question I don't know I
don't know okay if I have an answer yeah
so think about what is it available in
your general area that you have never
done before
oh man that's a great question I don't
know I feel like when you live in Hawaii
there's only so many things you can do
I completely agree yeah and that's why
you turned out games cos we're
interesting yeah so like what is in your
general vicinity so I want you to Clark
yeah pull up Google Maps sure and like
look at your general location okay I am
looking kind of okay and just like I
don't know how to I mean I don't want
you can use and I like my address and
chat not in chat is send it to me over
discord I'm just I'm just you're just
your city I can just you know my address
you like the FBI no just give me give me
your so yeah they're in discord yeah
yeah okay there you go because we don't
want these people doxxing you yeah well
if they Doc's me I get to go on a trip
if they don't to snipe me
hey guys hang out
okay so I see lots of beaches yep oh so
I see that there's a rifle range oh
where are you seeing that it's like you
live here have you ever shot a gun a
real gun no okay right so like I don't
want you to go and shoot people yeah I
don't have any plans own good but I
would explore the rifle range because as
someone who has shot guns before it is a
very unique experience
okay I'm not advocating that you should
go out and buy a gun nor am i advocating
that you shoot people you should not do
that
but in terms of like they're just the
broad range of human experience I think
like shooting a gun is something that's
very like it's very different yes
because I I also see that there's a
there's a gym so the other thing that
you could do is you could go take a
class at a gym that you haven't taken
before if you've ever done yoga
I have not okay great so that's probably
healthier than shooting a gun but I
think you should actually like go to
your agency what am I to do both
yeah well which gym are you seeing it's
just search for gym in your [ __ ] city
like there's good okay doesn't matter
what yeah yeah I got pain money there
actually you see what it is room and
then I stopped okay so so go do
something at a gym or go find yeah yeah
oh I'll probably do the rifle range good
that sounds like a nice like one-off
thing but the gym sounds like a good
internet cousin yes so you may want to
call them and figure out like you know
what you need to do to go there yeah
is there like a military base near where
you live um maybe there's a couple of
those yeah near is kind of objectives
for employee like if it takes more than
like 50 minutes it's for okay so so yeah
so like call them up and then like go
and do something real and then like go
take a yoga class which is that's that's
you know like let go and have an
experience okay okay yeah I've tried
looking up things on meetup but I never
really considered looking at Google Maps
really stuff to do that makes sense yeah
okay and seriously like just be clear
I'm not like advocating violence it's
just never like I think he doesn't even
need to be a real gun have you ever
played paintball I done paintball I've
done air riflery in high school yeah
yeah so so I mean I think like a broad
range of things like I think going
underwater is like a wild thing you can
do like going skydiving is a wild thing
you can do like it doesn't even have to
be wild like going to a yoga class is
like a very different experience you
know like having an orgasm is like a
very different experience like watching
an animal stumbling upon an animal in
the wild is like a very different
experience and and like these are just
different experiences right like going
to a crawfish boil is a different
experience if you've never eaten sushi
before having sushi is a different
experience if you've never played a
video game before like enjoying a video
game is like a wildly different
experience like I've tried to get my mom
to play video games for the last 20
years and like she finally had fun
playing a game can anyone guess what it
is oh can it be dude oh yeah someone got
it
nope it's it's overcooked okay
everything's great
she played overcooked it she liked it
was a riot
nice and and so that's what I want you
to do like I know it's like a [ __ ]
I'm gonna get banned now because I told
you go to a rifle range but I'm not
saying [ __ ] like really like everyone
understands that right I'm not and by
the way I mean like yeah I mean we can
talk a little bit about feelings of
wanting to be violent towards other
human beings because that's a big
problem yeah um so yeah so if I really
wanted to get banned and I wanted to
punish people I'd tell them to play Dark
Souls if you have to play Dark Souls
before that's another not novel
experience that you can get and so I
think like you're so so Andrew just to
sum up so I think that like it can be
very hard to figure out how to move
forward in life when you feel so stuck
and you don't know what to do right like
that's where you are like you don't even
know where to start
so like the instinct is to tell you like
oh if you like studied like video gaming
like why don't you try to break into the
industry and why don't you polish up
your resume and why don't you find an
internship those are all suggestions
that may be good suggestions but I think
the basic problem is that you have a
lack of experience in life like just
experiencing different things and what
you need to do is just go out and do
something like go do different things
they don't have to be good they don't
have to be bad but as you start to do
different things you are going to
develop a different sense of self from
the one that you have now and as you
change your sense of self your ability
to move in the world is going to change
okay questions a couple actually kind of
I don't know if this is taking some
steps backwards but I have an
opportunity with my work to to do online
college and I'm also I was also trying
to look for a new job I'm wondering what
you think would be good like if I should
stay with that and like it's like super
cheap schooling
and that's kind of a new experience but
what are you thinking it it's hard it's
like well one hand if I go to my job if
I stick with the job that I have now
it's like well we're kind of suck
sometimes but then I'd like to be going
to school but at the same time I could
get a new job and then like I don't know
like I feel like that might not be any
reading yeah so Andrew I don't really
know how to advise you about whether you
should change your job or not because
that's I mean I don't know anything
about your life I don't know what your
financial situation is I know you work
in retail you have the opportunity to go
to college so this is all like in your
head level thinking does that make sense
like you're doing analysis you're
weighing projects like I don't think you
have a problem with that
that's not where your problem is yeah so
I I don't know anything about your life
I don't know like where you live I don't
know how much your rent is I don't know
if you're somebody doesn't know where
you live now yeah yeah I mean I don't
know like what your living situation is
whether you live it alone whether you
live with roommates whether you live at
home I don't know I mean all of those
like those are the kinds of things that
weigh into a decision like this I think
the way that you need to start is by
like so you can figure out whatever that
decision is but frankly Andrew I think
you spent too much time thinking about
that stuff because that's not you've
been thinking about that kind of [ __ ]
all four years and it's like hasn't
gotten you anywhere you know like you
need to just go out and like do
something like if there's there's an
animal shelter like go and volunteer do
you have a pet no okay so like fine like
is are there animal shelters nearby now
you think there might be so like go out
and like volunteer at an animal shelter
okay spend time with like animals it's
like crazy it's fun and will make you
feel different about yourself yeah we
used to have a dog in the dog died and
it's like that's it we're done with that
Sarah okay sorry to do that that's okay
I just I don't know I think like there
are a lot more details that are involved
in terms of answering that question so
I'm sorry okay really like giving like I
I don't that's this way okay questions
yeah how does one go about getting
therapy great
okay so let's talk about therapy yeah so
I think it is a good idea if you feel
depressed or sad or especially like
suicidal because that's been cropping up
from time to time one or discord you
should definitely get therapy like so
you should go and get a mentor in fact I
think everyone should get like a mental
health evaluation I think it's a good
idea to just be in a physical evaluation
to if you haven't seen a primary care
physician go and see a primary care
physician so start there and in terms of
finding a therapist here's what I would
recommend so if you have health
insurance you can start depending on
what your financial situation is so
about a third of therapists within the
United States don't accept health
insurance if you have health insurance
you may have an out-of-network benefit
and if you have an out-of-network
benefit they will reimburse a percentage
of what you pay to to your therapist or
psychiatrist so for example I see people
my rate is 450 an hour out of that
patients who have good health insurance
get reimbursed about 350 per session so
their out-of-pocket cost is about $100
per week okay so depending on what kind
of insurance you have you'll have an
out-of-network benefit or you won't if
you don't have an out-of-network benefit
I would call your insurance company and
ask for a list of providers who accept
your insurance then you start googling
people and you start calling people and
you read about the therapist because
nowadays a lot of therapists sub
websites and you try to find a couple of
people that you like and then what you
do is you reach out to them and you try
to schedule appointments and then you go
and I would recommend that you meet with
three pairs Arabists and if you meet
with three you just pick the one that
you think like you enjoy meeting the
most like who do you like the best and I
think that sometimes people forget that
like you know you don't just buy the
first car you see you go and you
test-drive things and you see which one
works for you and that's especially
important for a therapist so the
insurance stuff aside the other thing
that you can do is just Google like
things in like therapists in your area
or you can go to a website like
Psychology Today or you can go to
someone like rise above the disorder
like rad I think is a good resource they
connect people with therapists they'll
interview you and try to find a good fit
for you
stuff like that so they can really help
you with that um and so that's I think
that's how you find a therapist what
modality and stuff they use is I think
like that can be important but at the
end of the day like you're probably not
gonna know much i mean i guess you can
read about psychodynamic versus CBT or
whatever you can find something that you
think you're gonna like but ultimately I
think fit is way more important and it's
been my experience that oh a lot of
therapists do way more than a particular
thing like even so the person who taught
me CBT I was really confused because I
thought she was gonna be teaching BC BT
but she kept on like talking to me about
psychodynamic stop it and it's just like
good therapists use like everything
under the Sun right make sense what do
you think about online therapy I mean I
do telepsychiatry with some people I
think I like meeting with people in real
life better but it can work okay
I am very confused as chat you guys are
right I don't know what anyway
other questions does that does that make
sense yeah like sense uh okay another
one this is like a cushion I submit it
to the question but but since I'm here
sure figure might as well ask it so I
have something relating to like I review
talking about it like having like Dharma
to like different people or different
things in your life like it's normal
like a singular thing or it's like I
have like a Dharma to my family or have
a Dharma to like my community or haven't
Dharma to myself like how does that work
great question
I'm gonna start actually by asking a
question to chat because I think I think
your question is good so chat I need
y'all's help or we need y'all's help and
you feel free to weigh in to Andrew
we're trying to think about like how we
can help you all the best
yes and you spent one of the things that
I'm thinking about is like we're
thinking about taking a step back from
just doing interviews and like doing
more start-to-finish content because we
get a lot of questions I talked a lot
about Dharma but it's like patchwork I
get questions about it I interview
someone about it and then sometimes
people like will ask and chat like
what's the deal with herma so one of the
things that we're thinking about doing
is like doing like a stream devoted to
particular topics so
I'll do one day just talking about
Dharma from start to finish another day
I'll talk about psychedelics which is
like start to finish
I may not probably won't do an interview
but we'll just like do one day about
psychedelics one day about Dharma like
another day about Ayurveda which people
seem to like a lot and so do you guys
want us to expand beyond Q&A and
interviews okay so then we're gonna do
that okay so the next question that I
have for you guys is that the other
thing that I was thinking is we start
with people right so we had this this
session with Andrew and I'm still not
sure if this is helping or not helping
or whether this is useful to people a
little bit yeah
so so we'll see though because I think
you're not gonna have a psychological
breakthrough that's gonna change your
life Andrew you like you need to go out
and start doing [ __ ] like that's really
Jeannie okay and cuz I think it's all
about combating that some scar and we
can talk more about that but here's the
other thing that I've been wondering so
we have a waiting list of people who
want to come on stream and at the same
time I'm wondering so I sometimes get
follow-ups from people and like I'm
wondering if actually it would be
helpful for people to see for example
Andrews journey right so he goes out and
he does this but then the next time we
meet we dig a little bit further so
would you guys do you guys like to see
like different people every week or
would you guys think it is better or
more useful just to watch someone's
journey from start to finish
journey okay so we're gonna do both okay
cuz I think the main reason we haven't
been doing journey is because I feel
like it is unfair to all of the people
who want to come on first a few people
to monopolize like our time and and the
help that we offer so I think we're
gonna try to do both so we're gonna pick
a couple of people and I think reckful
is gonna be one of them because he wants
to come on again and then we'll try to
pick like a couple of other people and
we're gonna try to see because there are
a lot of challenges that come up so if
you guys have seen the interviews with
the sky so sky like DM me the other day
and like brought up in a maze
point which i think is like really
important but like is something that
happens two or three steps forward that
like as you start with your first
revelation you start with your first
game plan but in the progress of growth
you have challenges that arise and like
those challenges are also very common so
Skye asked me a question and he's like I
was wondering if I should start changing
my life today or I should like pick a
date in the future to like start this
journey and like that's such a beautiful
question to ask because it's like so
important and there's this big problem
so people everyone says like oh you
should just do today you should do today
you should usually that's defeating the
point right so the purpose of the stream
is not to give him the answer the
purpose of the stream is to help him
understand what in his mind makes him
want to put it off and what in his mind
makes him want to do it today that's
what you guys have to understand there's
a part of your mind that wants to push
things off and where is that coming from
and how do we understand that because
the solution to doing things today is
not just to say today is the better day
to do it it's understanding why you want
to push it off until tomorrow right it's
not about the right answer like I'm not
here to give you guys answers I'm here
to help you understand like what's going
on inside you okay so we're gonna do
longitude like we're gonna do like more
longitudinal streams so we'll follow up
with particular people and we're
probably gonna do like between four and
eight weeks so apologies to the people
that we're not going to be getting to as
a result of that we're gonna do the best
that we can we're gonna continue to do
new people because I think that's
important too yeah and okay and then
yeah so the other thing is if you guys
know someone that you think should come
on stream by all means let us know and
if you guys are members of other
communities let them know too
like so if you guys want like so you let
that like cuz I don't know I mean I yes
oh so like whoever it is like you guys
have to help us get those people right
so someone messaged me the other day and
they were like PewDiePie is taking a
break from YouTube he's super stressed
out and like PewDiePie is huge and all
that like I'm happy to talk to the guy
but like I have no way of getting
PewDiePie to come on like I don't know
who all these people are ls messaged me
and they said okay fine I don't know who
ls is like a theme rated us thank you
for the rate of theme you're welcome to
come on I don't know who that is I don't
know who any these people are people
have been talking about Mitt jones since
day one and that's fine like I'm I think
we're gonna I think Mitch Jones
I don't know I'm I can't say anything
about that but like so you guys tell us
who you want us to see and you also tell
them because reckful actually we didn't
get reckful on the stream you guys got
reckful to come on the stream so someone
in our community said hey reckful you
should do this and reckful was like okay
and it was a kind of a last minute thing
so whoever you guys want to come on you
just let me know and you let them know
and we'll make it happen and we're
definitely gonna reserve time for pardon
me for saying this but like the people
who aren't big streamers right like
that's fine it's not this isn't like a
like celebrity psychoanalysis stream
this is just a helping regular people
stream and like everyone is a regular
person in my book okay so you guys let
us know who you want so lemme just hear
a like so a couple of takeaways so the
first is that you guys want to see more
content streams so I'm not gonna
interview someone I'm just gonna get up
here and I'm gonna [ __ ] talk at you
for like 45 minutes which I feel we're
doing but I'll do the second thing is
we're gonna do more like fall ops with
people and follow someone's journey from
like start to finish I don't know about
finish because I don't know but we're
gonna follow people over time and we'll
see how that goes and the third thing is
that if you guys want someone else to
come on
I'm happy to and then y'all let me know
how to make that happen cuz I'm a boomer
right I claim boomer I claim boomer who
is LSI don't know okay
now getting back to so so this is the
thing you guys are telling me to ask
this person to ask this I don't know who
any of these people are you guys need to
ask these people like [ __ ] like
someone here is telling me that I need
to be streaming more you guys have to
understand this I have a limited amount
of time in my day and if I'm asking
people to come on stream that is like
time that I'm not spending actually
streaming it sounds like I need be
streaming more not streaming less so if
a theme great lazy dog absolutely hey
let's be clear I never claimed to not be
lazy okay okay so let's get back to poor
Andrew who has been waiting patiently
for an answer to his question and let's
talk for a second about Dharma okay so
the karma is the Sanskrit word for duty
or responsibility and it is my belief
that like living in accordance with your
Dharma gives you an immense amount of
strength to tolerate the difficult parts
of life and so if you don't feel like
doing something like doing your daughter
like Dharma is what lets you like give
you the strength to tolerate the bad
stuff so class I mean not classic but
like one example that I use is like if
I'm working in the emergency room and
some guy comes in with like a heart
attack like or actually let me give you
guys a real example that happened to me
so that's happened too but so when I was
interviewing for residency before I was
even a doctor I was a fourth-year
medical student and I was flying all
over the country to do interviews I was
on a flight where the dreaded thing that
all doctors dread happens which is that
someone said is there a doctor on board
there's someone one of the passengers is
having a problem so I'm a fourth-year
medical student I'm not even a doctor
and so I kind of wait and I'm like let's
see if there's a doctor on board and
then like about 60 seconds later the
announcement happens again and no one
says anything
and then I'm like well [ __ ] like I'm not
technically a doctor I'm terrified right
because I don't actually know how to
save anyone's life but I may be the most
knowledgeable person on the plane like
I'm a medical student and so like what
should I do
like I'm afraid that I'm gonna kill
someone I'm afraid that I'm like I'm
feeling anxious I'm feeling scared and
what do you think I want to do Andrew
since we still have you on let's use
what do you want to do yeah what do you
want act was you want to help the person
yeah but what do you I want to do
something more which is not do anything
okay right yeah all right there's a part
of you that wants to help live in a part
of you that wants to do nothing right
absolutely which part do you think is
stronger the part that doesn't wanna do
anything absolutely I just want to stay
quiet and I want to pretend this never
happened
let the guy die so what is my Dharma
what is my duty or responsibility in
that moment Andrew Tigers help the
person absolutely right and so the more
that I orient towards that the more its
I'm able to deal with my negative
feelings because when you sit with
negative feelings this is important when
you sit with negative feelings the
negative feelings control you right like
this is gonna sound really weird but
when you're in your negative feelings
and you're fighting against yourself
your negative feelings control what you
do does that make sense
yeah but when you incorporate someone
else when you start acting for other
people like you become less important
does that make sense yeah it's like you
like I've been able to kind of dump does
that work - it helps and and then like
the less important you become in the
equation then it doesn't matter what
kind of [ __ ] you're dealing with what
your some scars are whether you have
anxiety or whatever like it becomes
about the other person and then you have
the strength to act it's almost like a
hack
it's like Dharma's like a hack to let
you overcome the [ __ ] that goes on
within you because in that moment like
it doesn't [ __ ] matter what I what
fear I feel like this guy could be done
and I may be a medical student I may be
it like I may be incompetent I don't
know how to save lives I don't know what
to do
but like I'm it
so what do you think happened Andrew any
idea uh I I'm hoping that you save the
guy yeah so I muster up my courage I
think about my Dharma I hit the call
bell flight attendant comes over he
grabs me and I say you know I just want
to say like I I may be able to help I'm
a fourth-year medical student so I'm
gonna graduate in a couple of months but
I'm not actually a doctor but I'm happy
to try to help with what I can
so she says please come with me sir we
go back to the airplane I see a guy on
the floor and next to him I see an older
dude who's kneeling over and I
introduced myself and the guy says oh
like thanks for showing up I'm glad
you're a medical student you can go back
to your seat I'm a cardiologist and this
guy's going to be fine he's having a
panic attack
great
turns out there was a [ __ ] doctor on
the plane and like their wires were
crossed and I was like oh my god almost
died but you didn't but you went up you
went up and you stepped up which is just
right yeah right and like that's that's
what karma is about Dharma is about like
that thing within you that helps you
combat that fever that helps you
overcome it in the fear is there it
doesn't go away we don't numb it that's
what video games do that's what drugs do
they make it go away so what I want you
guys to do is I don't want to take away
your fear I don't want to take away your
anxiety I don't want to take away your
sadness I don't want to take away your
depression I don't want to take away
your shame what I want to do is help you
live the life that you want to in spite
of those [ __ ] things right like
that's what life is about it's not about
taking away that [ __ ] it's about like
living a life where you can do the
things that you need to do and want to
do in spite of that [ __ ] and that's what
the autumn uh lets you do
so Andrews question do you have to harm
us to multiple people absolutely right
so you so this is what what I think is
fun about the Mahabharat so this is a
story about like karmic conflict so that
you have Dharma's to different people
and sometimes those Dharma's like
conflict and how do you resolve the
different thermals that you have to
different people and so for example you
know if you're if you're you know I
don't know how what to say but like you
know you mate you have a certain
tournament to your parents and sometimes
that conflicts with your Dharma to
yourself yes you have a Dharma to you
know maybe your boyfriend or girlfriend
and that can sometimes conflict with
your Dharma to yourself you have a
Dharma to yourself that can conflict
with Dharma to your family I mean to
your job or your boss and I think like
this is where a lot of people get bent
out of shape because they don't live in
accordance with their Dharma they try to
make their family happy and you can't
make your family happy but you can do
your duty to them right and this is
where a lot of people get bent out of
shape because they try to make their
parents proud you can't make your
parents proud you can just do the most
that you can to make them proud and
whether they feel proud or not is up to
them so there's a lot of strength in
Dharma too because there's a lot of
surrender in Dharma so like now Andrew
you have a Dharma to go out and
experience something that's your Dharma
to yourself and whether your life gets
transformed or not like that's not
something you can control and I know
people come on the stream thinking that
I'm gonna transform their lives guys I
can't [ __ ] do that it's impossible
like literally think about this you
can't talk to a guy on twitch for an
hour and your life be transformed it's
just not going to happen but you do have
a tournament to yourself and that
thermos
to go out and experience something go to
yoga class or a shooting range no
trouble okay but I don't advocate gun
violence in any way just against targets
right yeah so you have a dharma to
yourself and this is like really
important because I think most people
that I talk to on stream and like gamers
or human beings in general the Dharma
that they fail the most is actually the
Dharma to themselves just think about
that like like you'll do amazing things
for other people like if your friend is
sick you'll make them chicken noodle
soup and you'll like take them something
that's healthy and nutritious and tasty
but you won't make healthy and
nutritious and tasty food for yourself
you'll do it for them but you won't do
it for yourself and that's a [ __ ]
problem like the biggest person that
you're failing in life is not your
parents not your boss not well maybe
your spouse maybe your kids actually
yeah but is to yourself right yeah other
questions
Andrew or we-well I get any kind of
expanding on that like should I be
holding like the Dharma to myself above
other things or how does that like
what's the what's the hierarchy like I
mean there isn't a set hierarchy and
that's why you need to do things like
study certain texts to understand the
nuances of Dharma so I think you just
have to understand like how can you do
and I think a lot of times people
confuse like I said they confuse
outcomes with doing your Dharma so I
find it rare that true Dharma comes into
conflict and that usually there's like
some kind of karmic road which involves
fulfilling all of your responsibilities
okay so just like try to do everything
the best you can yeah and just
understand like what target you're
setting because your target shouldn't be
a particular thing happening it should
be a particular Dharma like I'm doing
this I'm doing X thing for X reason and
not worry yeah okay right so like I
don't know like what kind of conflict do
you mean but you know rarely does it
actually come into conflict
okay in my experience just you just need
to think through it and and talk through
it oftentimes it seems like it comes
into conflict but the more that you
reflect on it the more you can find that
middle road can it can it be a kind of
specific done sure feels kind of weird
but it's like a part of me like wants to
stay at my job because I feel like I
have a responsibility to my co-workers
but at the same time I have a
responsibility to myself to kind of like
seek better appointment so what is your
responsibility to your coworkers I know
they just kind of feel like like I feel
like that they've helped me a lot and I
add value to like what they do what does
that mean you add value to what they do
uh or like like I feel like part of a
team like I feel like part of a family
like I really like like the people that
I work with okay
so what is your paramount to your
co-workers wait to help them in one way
to show up to work and do my job okay so
if you don't show up and do your job
what happens to your coworkers uh well
it kind of sucks more for them because
then they have more stuff to do okay
like that's not your Dharma yeah so that
sounds like a failure of Dharma on your
boss's part does that mean can you try
that over time yes so like it's not your
responsibility to ensure that your
co-workers are not overworked okay
does that make sense yeah so that can
feel different from feeling like you owe
them so you have a Dharma to them if
they've done something good for you you
have a Dharma to do something good for
them so that's just a conversation it's
like hey guys I'm quitting but I really
appreciate when you did X Y & Z and if
you all need help down the right and
road if you like need help moving or
whatever like let me know I'm happy to
help you out you can do Dharma to those
individuals yeah but like making their
job easy is not your Dharma this is
exactly what I mean like Dharma's pretty
sim
it's your boss's thumb but to make sure
that their employees have manageable
experiences
that's the therm of a boss it's not the
thermal of a co-worker okay yeah the
kind of puts it into perspective right
like it's not your a job to make sure
your co-workers have a good experience
that's the boss's job yeah like that's
the role of a boss like that's the
Dharma of a boss if I employ people it's
my job to make sure that they don't get
overworked it's my job to make sure that
they don't that they feel fulfilled it's
my job that they feel that that that
they feel like they're growing as human
beings and like they have a certain
basic trauma to treat you treat each
other with respect but you don't control
like the work environment and the
workloads of your coworkers that's not
your Dharma okay that can be hard to
accept but to me it's pretty simple like
you're taking responsibility for things
that are not yours that's not your
responsibility that makes sense
okay okay uh I guess okay yeah I mean I
don't know how much more time that you
have but well I'd like to get to other
questions but if you have like like if
you have like a clarifying question or
you don't understand by all means ask no
I think I think that's good I think I
got it okay awesome and thanks for
coming on Andrew strong work today all
right and you know try to make peace
with your inner scar because remember
guys there there are some battles that
you can't win because those are the
battles that you play against you fight
against yourself
that's a game you can't win when you're
playing against yourself so don't do it
okay good luck Andrew and check in with
us by the way like I do a bad job of
like not following or not mentioning
this on stream but I don't know if you
guys remember we had someone on a couple
weeks ago or maybe a month ago we were
like telling them to make food and they
like made some kind of stew it was
amazing I don't even remember who they
are
Joro took a walk yeah I forget who who
it is but anyway so people are actually
doing stuff you guys remember Joro he's
like taking walks and [ __ ] so that's
good oh I get I guess real quick I said
okay after I take my yoga class and go
shooting guns like what I do after that
what's next message me we'll figure it
out okay continue doing things yeah okay
okay all right sounds good gizmo right
gizmo made the stew she made some bacon
and vegetable stew it looked good mm-hmm
all right take care Andrew okay thanks
right